July 13, 2017 was the beginning of a transitional period on my journey of learning to code. I had recently started the final pset in edX Harvard cs50, and I was planning on attending my first meetup. Attending a coding meetup for the first time is extremely intimidating, especially if you have never been to a meetup before. It was a group called CodeClub, and it was their first meetup. I read online and heard through podcasts that meetups are a great way to meet other programmers either learning to code or practicing professionally. It had been something that I knew I should start doing, but I kept putting it off.  The meeting was in downtown Berkeley, and I was having trouble finding parking which was almost enough of a reason to convince me to turn back home. I told myself that if I am going to make such a commitment to work so hard and do a total 180 making a career switch, I would have to have the guts to attend a silly little meetup.

I found parking and walked in, the setup was a little odd. It was a workspace that was arranged to have chairs facing a television. The guy who created the group stood up by the television and started his introduction. The general feeling of the room was that of uneasiness and awkwardness. The speaker didn't necessarily have a clear vision for the meetup group. It seemed like he wanted to work on projects with people, yet he was also willing to teach people. He had been dabbling with Ruby on his own for the last couple years and wanted to start working with other people. We went around the room and each person talked about why they attended and what their coding background was. I noticed very quickly that everyone in the room was as if not more uncomfortable than I was. So as soon as it was my turn to speak, I was feeling confident. I had just finished Udacity CS101 and Harvard cs50 in less than 2 months. These people don't know me, so why not just act confident?

The meetup kept going with no real focus or sense of organization, as we were all trying to figure out which way to take the meetup and the group as a whole. We learned some ruby, learned a little bit about git. I realized that a Windows computer is not ideal for programming. The speaker talked about what kind of projects he was interested in. I had read that after doing an intro CS course, you're supposed to work on projects, so I thought the idea of this meetup group was perfect. I could learn from this guy, and simultaneously work on projects with other people. Seemed like a win-win. At the time, I was pretty dead set on learning full stack javascript...but this guy knew ruby. I had a decision to make. Would I start to learn Ruby, so that I can do projects with this guy or learn full stack javascript which was what the internet was pushing me towards. Or should I finish the last problem set of cs50 first? 

Leaving the meetup, I had a couple thoughts:
1. I need to work in a Linux environment
1. I need to start learning Ruby

That weekend I started to look at new computers that would be good for coding and good for linux. Ultimately, I realized that I didn't want to spend money on a new computer, so I would try to set up a dual boot of Windows and Ubuntu on my current 6 year old laptop. Turns out I messed up the bootmgr file on my Windows and couldn't boot to anything for awhile, and it took me the whole weekend working around the clock to get the dual boot to work. I learned a thing or two about operating systems that weekend. I learned about partitions, ISO files, and the BIOS that weekend. As of July 16th, I had begun my Linux career.
