I had a few people warn me about linux. They said it's great and all that I want to immerse myself into the linux environment and go all in, but maybe I should think it through and make sure I'm ready. I figured that it can't be that hard and if it is, then I'd just have to learn it. I read online and on job postings that working in a unix environment is a plus. The quickest and most efficient way to become comfortable in a unix environment in my mind was to do all my computing in a unix environment. I wanted to force myself to use linux, so that I could learn it along the way and eventually add it to my resume.

I chose Ubuntu because it was the most popular and widely supported distro and much to my surprise it looked more or less like a normal operating system. I was surprised that you didn't need to use the command line for everything. You could use the UI for most things if you wanted to. I quickly tried to use the command line and quickly failed. I then found a highly recommended ebook on learning the command line and started working on that. The book was called "The Command Line". How fitting? I worked my way through 40 or so pages until I realized that I should probably be focusing on learning web development.

I don't really have a whole lot to say about the command line or the linux environment. Except I highly recommend that coder wanna-bes dive into the linux environment as soon as possible. The earlier you can get comfortable with it, the more you can talk about it during an interview, and the quicker you can put it on a resume. I will also say that it seems super useful to be able to write scripts in your operating system. I haven't really done it yet, but there are many times where I want to quickly sort/filter certain files or folders and can't ever do it in Windows. With linux, you can just make a script! There are a few issues that I have run into connecting to external monitors and switching between Windows and Linux. Other than that, it runs pretty smoothly. 
